So looking back to our reference document,
we have just one thing left for our infrastructure to be complete,
at least when it comes to the Foundation Network,
and that is routing.
So let's go ahead and take a look at what I have for routing.
There's two things that you need to be aware of,
one is creating route tables,
which is a place where you can define routing rules, and then, of course,
the specifying those rules which are going to make
whatever is private is going to actually make it private,
and whatever is public is going to be made public in this case.
So let's get to the fun part.
So here in the network reference document that I'm using,
you're going to see we have route tables and route table associations,
and also route table rules.
So let's take that and copy it over.
Going to start over here.
So you can see it's quite a significant amount of code that's
done and we're going to copy it over to our file,
and then we're going to discuss each one of those lines.
Go over here, paste.
This time we're going to make sure that we have
the proper indentation before we continue.
It's just this resource here.
We're going to move it over,
tap once, and that's correct.
The others are moved, I believe,
as well so we need to bring them back.
One tap, we're going to do Shift tab all the way to the end here, Shift tab.
Now everything should be properly aligned on the same column.
So this is the NatGateway we created, NatGateway number 2,
and the first command that you will see here is a route table creation.
We're going to display, in a moment,
the documentation on all these resources.
You are not required to memorize any of these resources.
So if you know you need a routing table,
I'll show you how to get that information from the official documentation.
So in this case, we're creating a route table.
We just call it route table here in our script,
and we attach it to a specific BPC by using the ref function from CloudFormation,
which refers to not a parameter in this case,
but actually a resource that we're creating in this very same script.
We also see that we assign a name tag,
and we'll just call it public routes with the name of the project.
Here is our first routing rule.
A routing rule in AWS is
basically where you're telling traffic to go from and where traffic is going.
This is necessary so that you can basically say any resource within this subnet,
needs to abide by these rules,
otherwise, block the traffic.
Let's take a look. So this particular resource,
this route, it has the DependsOn rule.
It depends on an Internet gateway attachment properly working.
Again, this is just a hint for CloudFormation,
so this may not be necessary.
You have to experiment with this.
This is probably not necessary,
but is a good guarantee that this is going to be used when
the Internet gateway is attached to the BPC and
not in any other time during the creation of these resources.
So we have a route table ID.
So that means is we're attaching
this rule to this route table that we just created a moment ago,
and the rule is this: the rule is,
if you're routing traffic to any address,
this 0.0.0.0/0 means a wildcard address or all addresses,
they will be routed to this particular resource.
In this case, we provide a gateway ID,
in this case, the Internet gateway that we created.
So in routing, when you specify a 000,
that's like a wildcard,
which means just send all traffic to over here.
Something else that you need to know is that routes go
from very specific to the least specific.
So the default route that we mentioned a moment ago,
where we have all the traffic within the BPC being able to talk to one another,
that will take precedence.
What that means is if I'm trying to reach
a server that is just right there and the next private subnet over,
it's not going to go to the outside because of this new rule that we're creating.
It's just going to reach that server because the rule is more specific.
Any 10.0.1 that would be within
the BPC realm will be executed for and this rule will be ignored.
However, if you're trying to reach udacity.com,
it will be outside,
and they apply this rule.